Concept of type juggling (#581)
exercism/php: concepts/type-juggling/about.md

# Type Juggling

Type juggling may also be known as type coercion.
Type juggling is when two values of different types are coerced to the same type to perform an operation.

```php
$baskets = 5 // int
$apples_per_basket = "3" // string
$baskets * $apples_per_basket
# => 15 // int
```

> This implicitly converts the `string` to an `int` to execute the `*` operation.

Reviewer: Rather than use "this" or "it" can we be clear about the mechanisms in action?

```suggestion
When the expression is evaluated, the string value is implicitly converted to an `int` to match the expectation of the `*` operator.
```

The decision, which type to coerce, is made by PHP according to the rules of the operation and these rules vary largely.

> Type juggling **does not change** the type of the value stored in a variable.

Reviewer: Is this a necessary detail? If we add this then I think you almost need to add it to every operation that isn't explicitly assigning the value to a variable, which feels redundant as we repeat this statement twice in this description.

If there is a particular point of concern here about how variable assignment occurs, we should address that in the variable assignment concept.

Author: It was one of the most asked questions on this topic I was facing. Often implicit, when people tried to show the conversion result after the operation by `var_dump()`-ing the variable.

So I think, yes it is necessary detail. I gave it its own heading, so it is not repeated. And I used an example without assignment.

Reviewer: This sounds like a good approach if you've seen it come up in reviews

Only the value processed by the operation is converted.

```php
$apples_per_basket = "3" // string
5 * $apples_per_basket
# $apples_per_basket => "3" // string
```

Type coercion also happens when calling functions and methods:

```php
strlen(12321);
# => 5
```

## Turn off type juggling

Type juggling happens by default.

> We can stop PHP from coercing and force it to check types strictly:

Reviewer: This isn't accurate -- https://www.php.net/manual/en/language.types.declarations.php

This declaration only disables coercion on function parameters and return types made by calls from the file where the declaration is made. 

It doesn't turn off type juggling globally or in every situation.

I think this is worth having its own separate concept.

Author: Well, there's always something to learn. Thanks for pointing that out to me!

Strict types will get their own concept for sure...

```php
<?php

declare(strict_types=1);

strlen(12345); // => TypeError
```

## Type Casting

Rather than relying on implicit coercion, we can explicitly force a value to be evaluated as a certain type using `C`-style type casting:

```php
$apples_per_basket = "3" // string
$my_number = (int) $apples_per_basket // cast string to int
# => 3 // int
```

> This will forcibly convert the value to the type specified in the brackets `(...)`.

Reviewer: Can we drop "forcibly" from this statement?

> Allowed types for manual type casting are: `bool`, `int`, `float`, `string`, `array`, `object`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All primitive types can be used can be used as the target of type. `bool`, `int`, `float`, `string`, `array`, `object`.
```
